Every group was different, but I would say
approximately one-third of the participants, I
felt like there was a change. There was a genuine
effort. And I found when I was doing the recruits,
actually, they were the easiest group because they
were soaking in the learning. They were also much
more aware of the queer and trans communities. I
remember this one older gentleman, he said, “You
know, I retire in two months. There’s no way I’m
going to understand all of this. [laughing] And,
you know what? I don’t want to understand.”
[laughs] So, you kind of had those two extremes:
I’m here to learn. And then you had other
people who just felt like it was way too
complicated for them to understand, especially
around gender. They couldn’t understand gender
being on a spectrum. Even sexuality, they kind of
understood, but I had comments like, “Maybe there
should be a separate shower for LGBTQ people.” And
of course, that’s shocking and horrible. I mean,
it’s horrible in the sense that they were doing
it out of homophobia. I was really pleased that
they felt safe enough to say that to me. I
wanted to set up a safe environment where
they could express their opinions and that we
could have a conversation. As a facilitator,
our jobs are to walk in and work with the
knowledge that’s in the room and kind of
direct the knowledge towards a place of respect
for each other. That’s a much longer process than
two and a half hours, but the idea is to start
the conversations. And I do believe that the
police have grown. Most workshops that you do, the
participants are usually signing up themselves,
so they’re already in tune with the subject
matter. This one was different in that it was
people of all backgrounds who may or may not
be familiar with what you’re talking about,
and the vast majority were not. So, to be
challenged as a facilitator on that, yeah,
I thought it was great. When you discovered a new
skill within yourself, it was very empowering.